---
title: The Climb
author: Hitesh Gautam * * * *
layout: post
---

Every step, every choice we make is comparable to the different dilemmas we face while we climb a mountain. (BTW I haven't climbed any, there you go into the bucket list!) The thing is binary choices should be quantifiable. It should be well understood by the experiences of the thousands of elders (I am being specific) who have faced the same (at least similar). In the computer world, everything that is redundant is discouraged, wastage of memory. Then why actions are not taken care in the same way? Why thinking patterns are not broken so they stop yielding similar mistakes.
Yes, experiential learning is great but is it required that every lesson should give you a jab in the abdomen rather than a nudge on the head? Why aren't we making it our responsibility to stop others from doing the same thing we had done and have reaped bitter in the past.
Does the answer lie in randomness? The same action yielding different results? Same thought process giving out different ideas?

If I will ever climb a mountain, I will mark the way that made me reach the top. Success stories are not often shared with the special ingredients that made it possible. But till I complete climb, let's go with these markers:
>Grit, Consistency, Urgency, Sincerity

If I find more in the way I will share those here. If any of you find any new on your own, do let me know. In the end it just matters that we are at the top. We all have our own mountains to climb.
And those comparing the heights of the mountains, you are in a wrong contest. :)
   